# BIOMD0000000285: Tang2010_PolyGlutamate

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000285.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000285.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
** Experimental and computational analysis of polyglutamine-mediated cytotoxicity. **   
Tang MY, Proctor CJ, Woulfe J, Gray DA. _PLoS Comput Biol._2010 Sep 23;6(9).
[20885783](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20885783),  
**Abstract:**   
Expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) proteins are known to be the causative agents
of a number of human neurodegenerative diseases but the molecular basis of
their cytoxicity is still poorly understood. PolyQ tracts may impede the
activity of the proteasome, and evidence from single cell imaging suggests
that the sequestration of polyQ into inclusion bodies can reduce the
proteasomal burden and promote cell survival, at least in the short term. The
presence of misfolded protein also leads to activation of stress kinases such
as p38MAPK, which can be cytotoxic. The relationships of these systems are not
well understood. We have used fluorescent reporter systems imaged in living
cells, and stochastic computer modeling to explore the relationships of polyQ,
p38MAPK activation, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), proteasome
inhibition, and inclusion body formation. In cells expressing a polyQ protein
inclusion, body formation was preceded by proteasome inhibition but
cytotoxicity was greatly reduced by administration of a p38MAPK inhibitor.
Computer simulations suggested that without the generation of ROS, the
proteasome inhibition and activation of p38MAPK would have significantly
reduced toxicity. Our data suggest a vicious cycle of stress kinase activation
and proteasome inhibition that is ultimately lethal to cells. There was close
agreement between experimental data and the predictions of a stochastic
computer model, supporting a central role for proteasome inhibition and
p38MAPK activation in inclusion body formation and ROS-mediated cell death.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2010 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


